Extra Dependency (#15650)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/proof-engine/vernacular-commands.rst

   the :ref:`command line option <command-line-options>` :n:`-I @string` or by the command :cmd:`Add
   ML Path` `@string` (cf. :cmd:`Declare ML Module`).

.. _extra_dependencies:

Extra Dependencies
------------------

Dependencies on external files, i.e. non ``.v`` files, can be declared as
follows:

.. cmd:: From @dirpath Extra Dependency @string {? as @ident }

> Coq checks that a file name :n:`@string` exists in one, and only one, directory
> associated to :n:`@dirpath`. If :n:`@ident` is provided then Coq gives
> access to the full path of the external file to OCaml plugins via the
> ``ComExtraDeps.query_extra_dep`` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coq checks that a file name :n:`@string` exists in one, and only one, directory
associated with :n:`@dirpath`. If :n:`@ident` is provided, that value can be passed
to the function``ComExtraDeps.query_extra_dep`` to get [EXACTLY WHAT?].
```

The first sentence seems odd--why would you want that behavior?  If I have a string "xyz.o" and there are files "a/xyz.o" and "b/xyz.o", you get an error?
Can the string specify subdirectories, e.g. a string "a/xyz.o"?  If so, they're always separated by "/", even on Windows?

The ``coqdep`` tool generates a dependency on the external file for the

> current ``.v``.

Reviewer 2: If (and only if) you keep the deprecated compatibility syntax (👍 ) it should also be documented.

Author: done

   the :ref:`command line option <command-line-options>` :n:`-I @string` or by the command :cmd:`Add
   ML Path` `@string` (cf. :cmd:`Declare ML Module`).

.. _extra_dependencies:

Extra Dependencies
------------------

Dependencies on external files, i.e. non ``.v`` files, can be declared as
follows:

.. cmd:: From @dirpath Extra Dependency @string {? as @ident }
   :name: From … Dependency

   Adds an additional dependency of the current `.v`  file on an external file.  This
   information is included in the ``coqdep`` tool generated list of dependencies.
   The file name :n:`@string` must exist relative to only one of the top directories
   associated with :n:`@dirpath`.  :n:`@string` can include directory separators
   (``/``) to select a file in a subdirectory.
   Path elements in :n:`@string` must be valid Coq identifiers, e.g. they cannot
   contain characters such as ``-`` or ``,``.  See :ref:`lexical-conventions`.

When :n:`@ident` is provided, that name can be used by OCaml code, typically
in a plugin, to access the full path of the external file via the API
``ComExtraDeps.query_extra_dep``.

> This command has been available through the :cmd:`Comments` command,

Reviewer 3: Why "has been" rather than "is also"?

Another remark is that it's a bit surprising to me that the documentation of this command is not a little more specific about the use case.

Anyway, these are very minor comments so take them into account or not as you wish.

Reviewer 3: I didn't mean put an example. Just mention that things like Elpi exist.

Reviewer: > Why "has been" rather than "is also"?

My suggestion, based on the understanding (from the original wording) that the Comments form is deprecated.  If that's incorrect, "is also" may be more accurate.

Reviewer: And AFAIK was undocumented.

Reviewer 4: @jfehrle Comments is not new, since 8.4.5 (I can't test further back) it has worked. You can do for example `Comments asdf asdf asdf.` Enrico's trick here is to use that for backwards compatibility since it will be ignored by previous versions but can be picked up on master until developments can catch up.

Reviewer: The `Comments` command is not new.  Associating an action with `Comments From ... Extra Dependency` is deprecated (the "Comments form" I referred to) in favor of the new command `From ... Extra Dependency`.  Right?

Reviewer 4: Right, currently in master they do the exact same thing, but older versions of Coq will only be happy about (not understand tho) the Comments version.

Reviewer: You mean "newer versions", right?

Author: Thanks for clarifying. Still I don't know how to improve this text if needed.

Reviewer 3: > Associating an action with `Comments From ... Extra Dependency` is deprecated

It's both new and deprecated at the same time. Previously, one could write `Comments From ... Extra Dependency` but it would not be associated with any action.

Reviewer: > It's both new and deprecated at the same time.

A form of planned obsolescence??  I still don't get it, but since is already merged, it matters little.

Reviewer 4: So Enrico introduced a new command `From ... Extra Dependency`. If you put this in a Coq file, master will now compile since this PR has merged. But if you were to put this in Coq < 8.15, Coq would reject the command since it doesn't know what it is. This `Comments` trick allows you to write such a command in a backwards compatible way, what Enrico did was to intercept the parsing of `Comments From ... Extra Dependency` so that it did the same thing as `From ... Extra Dependency`. Now Coq projects can put `Comments From ... Extra Dependency` and keep backwards compatibility. It is immediately deprecated since in the future we do plan to get rid of this particular interpretation of `Comments`, hence we are encouraging people to use the new `From ... Extra Dependency ` if possible.

   the :ref:`command line option <command-line-options>` :n:`-I @string` or by the command :cmd:`Add
   ML Path` `@string` (cf. :cmd:`Declare ML Module`).

.. _extra_dependencies:

Extra Dependencies
------------------

Dependencies on external files, i.e. non ``.v`` files, can be declared as
follows:

.. cmd:: From @dirpath Extra Dependency @string {? as @ident }
   :name: From … Dependency

>    Coq checks that a file name :n:`@string` exists in one, and only one,
>    directory associated with :n:`@dirpath`. It does not recursively
>    scan subdirectories but :n:`@string` can contain the directory separator
>    ``/`` and hence denote a file in a subdirectory.
>    The ``coqdep`` tool generates a dependency on the external file for the
>    current ``.v`` file.
>    Note that path elements in :n:`@string` must be valid Coq identifiers,
>    e.g. they cannot contain characters such as ``-`` or ``,``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Adds an additional dependency of the current `.v`  file on an external file.  This
   information is included in the ``coqdep`` tool generated list of dependencies.
   The file name :n:`@string` must exist relative to only one of the top directories
   associated with :n:`@dirpath`.  :n:`@string` can include directory separators
   (``/``) to select a file in a subdirectory.   
   Path elements in :n:`@string` must be valid Coq identifiers, e.g. they cannot
   contain characters such as ``-`` or ``,``.  See :ref:`lexical-conventions`.
```

Hmm, I commented on this before but maybe I forgot to click "Add review comment"

Is it an error if `@string` refers to a .v file?  Does reporting it as an error really matter?

If `@string` starts with `..`, is that valid?  Worth complaining about?  How about
a string starting with `/`?

Identifier syntax is defined [here](https://coq.inria.fr/distrib/current/refman/language/core/basic.html#lexical-conventions).  Unicode characters are OK in `@string`?

When :n:`@ident` is provided, that name can be used by OCaml code, typically
in a plugin, to access the full path of the external file via the API
``ComExtraDeps.query_extra_dep``.

> This command can also be prefixed with ``Comments``: it has the same effect,
> but the file can be compiled also with version of Coq prior to 8.16.
> 
> .. warn:: ``Comments From … Dependency …``
> 
>    is deprecated from Coq 8.16 onward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command has been available through the :cmd:`Comments` command,
e.g. :n:`Comments From … Dependency …`.  The :n:`Comments` form is deprecated
in Coq 8.16.
```

IIUC the `.. warn::` is not appropriate because it's not a warning message.  Right?
